---
layout: post
title: MatrixJoinLink @ TWIM
date: 2023-08-04
description: My first post on MatrixJoinLink at TWIM 04.08.2023
tags: matrix
categories: projects
featured: false
---

Originally posted on [TWIM](https://matrix.org/blog/2023/08/04/this-week-in-matrix-2023-08-04/).

[MatrixJoinLink](https://github.com/dfuchss/MatrixJoinLink) is bot that allows the creation of invite links to non-public rooms in matrix. It uses the [Trixnity](https://trixnity.gitlab.io/trixnity/) framework.
The bot is currently in early alpha and primarily used as proof-of-concept.
In addition, I currently gather feedback regarding the concept.

#### Reason for this Bot

I always struggled with the problem that I have private rooms, I want to share with a group of friends. Before the bot, I had to invite all the people. Now I can invite _JoinLink_ and create an invite link. This link can be shared to my friends who want to join my room (including spaces).

#### Technical Details / How it works

1. Let's assume that you want to share the private room `!private:room.domain`
2. After you've invited the bot, you can enter `!join link IShareLinksWithYou`
3. The bot creates a new public room that contains "IShareLinksWithYou" in its name. The room will not be listed in the room directory; for this example its ID is `!public:room.domain`
4. If somebody joins the public room, the bot verifies whether the rooms belong to each other based on two encrypted state events in `!private:room.domain` and `!public:room.domain`. If the validation is successful, the bot invites the user to the private room.
5. If you want to disable the share simply type `!join unlink` in the private room. This will invalidate the link.
